Blog of first day RedHat TY Programme

When I came in at the start of the day we got a talk about the company including what the company is and what the companies aims and goals are which was helpful as I didn’t know too much about what exactly is done, I only had a general idea. I noticed there wasn’t too many other girls also participating in the programme which I really liked as no one could really get too overwhelmed when there isn’t too many people in a room that they aren’t familiar with. There was also interns who were very helpful if any questions needed to be asked. We did an icebreaker game and in doing so everyone started talking to each other and it worked very well. After this we went on a tour which was really cool to see all the desks/office space, different rooms and facilities. After the tour we went and played games on a nintendo which was really good as everyone started talking more and the original awkwardness was gone. We then got our lunch break where we all got t eat and talk, it was nice to be able to meet everyone and get to know them. We went back after lunch and did an agile workshop. I really liked the way Fortune delivered the workshop as he explained everything really well, took his time and made it humorous when necessary which made it more enjoyable too. I learned a lot of new things as I wasn’t too sure what agile or agility meant previous to the workshop. We did a building exercise in which we were split into two teams and we had to build a product while adapting to change throughout the process which linked in the agility. I really enjoyed this as it was fun and I learned a lot.
Day 2: This morning when we came in we had a few minutes to catch up on yesterday's work. 
We then had a Git workshop, at first I didn't really understand what te coding we were doing was actually for but the interns were very good at explaining it and the commands were not impossible but were challenging. I do think another explanation may be needed before the week is through.We had lunch for an hour after this. We then got to programme microbits and use makey makeys. I programmed the microbit to be a dice, play the heads up game and started red light green light. Then we set up the makey makeys to control our keyboard and it was really interesting. I really enjoyed it.
Day 3 
For majority of the day yesterday we were split into two teams and were required to build a roller coaster that had at least one loop in it. I enjoyed this activity although it was hard as we had to plan out and breakdown everything we were going to do. We had a talk on AI and this was really helpful, I learned alot of new things. We also had a talk about women in tech. It was really nice to hear some experiences from women in the industry. It was nice to hear that they didn't initially know that that's what they wanted to do and you dont actually have to be good at maths.
Day 4 
This morning we got to get breakfast in the canteen and we were all full for the day ahead. We then had a talk on cloud computing. I found this very interesting and there was a small quiz involved too which made it enjoyable. We had an early lunch and played pool and mario. After lunch, we had a python workshop. At first I was nervous because it looks very intimidating but they explained it really well. We got to change codes which affected parts of a game, ball speed, colour etc. I really liked this because when broken down it is simpler then it looks
Day 5
 We started this morning and we learned how to programme microbits to make cars race. We commanded the buttons to turn left, right, go forward and also tried to command it to reverse but we couldn't get the hang of it. It took us a bit of time but eventually we got all the comands to work after having to check the codes many times and plug microbits in and out.We then practiceddriving around the track but then it ended up being changed to theopposite way around the track which took getting used to. We had our lunch and got pizza. When we came back in we were in three teams and had to race our cars around a track. Each player in each team went and then we got an average, our team came in second as I wasn't very fast. I really liked this it was great fun and after today using the microbit is alot easier now.
 I really enjoyed my week in RedHat as coming in I didn't know what to expect but I learned so much and I really appreciate having the oppurtunity to come here. I really liked everything we did in all the workshops, I didn't find myself bored at all. Everyone was really nice and I didn't feel awkward to ask any questions at all. I would really recommend this programme to anyone even if they don't think they have a major interest it is still worth trying.